# 1.3 Charting a new course in Excel

* Homework 1 due 12/7 at 11:59:59 PM
* Regression
  * 1.) Perform the regression
    * y = mx + b
  * 2.) Analyze the regression
  * Whole point of regressions is making predictions.
  * Select Residuals in Excel.
    * The distance between each dot and the regression line (measured vertically).
  * Multipe R is correlation.
    * Correlation does not mean causation.
    * Correlation runs from -1 to 1.
  * R^2 = coefficient of definition.
    * How close is the line to the dots.
    * If line is close to the dots, you have a high R^2.
    * If line is far from the dots, you have a low R^2.
    * R^2 goes from 0 to 1.
    * Higher R^2 are better.
  * P-value
    * Very small p-value means we trust the results (means the results are significant.)
  * x-axis  is independent axis.
  * y-axis is dependent axis.
  * does number of points (y-axis) affect minutes played (x-axis)?
  * tylervigen.com/spurious-correlations

* In other words, I meant to put house price on the y-axis (vertical) and square footage on the x-axis (horizontal). But I accidentally did it the other way around.
  * To easily correct this, I could've cut the column called sqft_living and pasted it just to the left of the column called price. Then I could've selected those two columns and created the scatter plot I wanted, with house price on the vertical axis. This works because Excel assumes we want the column on the left to be the x-axis and the one on the right to be the y-axis. (There are other ways to accomplish this without cutting and pasting, but that's more than I want to cover here.)

* The first graph shows how home price (x-axis) determines square footage (y-axis), while the second one shows how square footage (x-axis) determines home price (y-axis).
In our example, we talked about how square footage drives price, so I should've been careful to draw it that way when I created the graph.
In this particular example, it may not matter much which way we draw the graph (since larger houses typically cost more, and more expensive houses are typically larger). But imagine if we were talking about cigarette smoking and lung cancer. It's generally accepted that smoking causes lung cancer, but it doesn't make much sense to talk about it the other way around; i.e., lung cancer causes smoking. So our graph should reflect this by putting cigarette smoking on the x-axis and lung cancer on the y-axis.
As data analysts, it's important to be careful about things like this, and we'll definitely talk more about it in future classes.